the happy bastard's quick movie review 
damn that y2k bug . 
it's got a head start in this movie starring jamie lee curtis and another baldwin brother ( william this time ) in a story regarding a crew of a tugboat that comes across a deserted russian tech ship that has a strangeness to it when they kick the power back on . 
little do they know the power within . . . 
going for the gore and bringing on a few action sequences here and there , virus still feels very empty , like a movie going for all flash and no substance . 
we don't know why the crew was really out in the middle of nowhere , we don't know the origin of what took over the ship ( just that a big pink flashy thing hit the mir ) , and , of course , we don't know why donald sutherland is stumbling around drunkenly throughout . 
here , it's just " hey , let's chase these people around with some robots " . 
the acting is below average , even from the likes of curtis . 
you're more likely to get a kick out of her work in halloween h20 . 
sutherland is wasted and baldwin , well , he's acting like a baldwin , of course . 
the real star here are stan winston's robot design , some schnazzy cgi , and the occasional good gore shot , like picking into someone's brain . 
so , if robots and body parts really turn you on , here's your movie . 
otherwise , it's pretty much a sunken ship of a movie . 
janeane garofalo in a romantic comedy -- it was a good idea a couple years ago with the truth about cats and dogs but is almost excruciating in the matchmaker . 
this is a by-the-books movie that plods along on a predestined course with no surprises and very few laughs . 
it also jumps on the ever-popular political satire bandwagon and manages to fall flat there , too . 
garofalo plays a campaign aide to a massacusetts senator ( jay o . sanders ) running for reelection . 
denis leary plays the stereotypical strategist with no ethics who decides the only way for the scandal- plagued senator to win is to play up his irish roots and cash in on that boston roman catholic democrat contingent that's made the kennedy family so popular . 
so leary orders garofalo to go to ireland and dig up some relatives to exploit . 
she soon learns why " easier said than done " is the mantra of movies like this . 
the matchmaker falls for every cliche of things that can go wrong -- garofalo has to take a tiny plane to ireland , almost misses the bus to town , can't get a hotel room , ends up in the smallest , trashiest one around , has a dog piss on her luggage , and so on . 
then comes what roger ebert calls the " meet cute . " 
it happens in every romance : the man and woman have to meet each other for the first time in some unconventional , cinematic way . 
in the matchmaker , it happens when garofalo walks into her hotel bathroom and finds a nude sean ( david o'hara ) in the bathtub , his dog sitting at his side . 
no points for guessing it's the same dog that just made water on her luggage . 
also no points for guessing garofalo hates o'hara on sight . 
that's how it works in movies like these . 
i know from the instant i saw that irishman in the bathtub that she'd hate him for awhile , then succumb to his charms , live happily for a reel or so before allowing some superficial detail to throw the relationship into turmoil , after which they'd reconcile in time for a happy irish tune to play over the end credits . 
i haven't mentioned the movie's twist yet . 
garofalo comes to the small ireland town during the annual matchmaking festival , during which lonely folks from around the county pair off into a future of bliss . 
milo o'shea ( who looks like an irish tom snyder ) is the matchmaker who pops onscreen occasionally to spew his words of wisdom and bring lonely souls together . 
rest assured he'll do all he can to match up garofalo and o'hara . 
oh , and in keeping with the matchmaker's utter predictability , he dies toward the end . 
what the message here ? 
sometimes even the most respectable person of comedic distinction , like garofalo , will sell out with a weak script . 
i was excited to see garofalo and leary in the same movie , but they actually only have two or three scenes together . 
leary stays stateside , for the most part , yelling at garofalo over the phone and generally being an asshole . 
he even undoes himself with the old microphone's still on after he's done giving the speech cliche . 
both of them should have known better . 
and now the high-flying hong kong style of filmmaking has made its way down to the classics , and it isn't pretty . 
this time out the nod to asia goes by way of france in the excruciating bland and lukewarm production of the musketeer , a version of dumas's the three musketeers . 
by bringing in popular asian actor/stunt coordinator xing xing xiong -- whose only prior american attempts at stunt choreography have been the laughable van damme vehicle double team and the dennis rodman cinematic joke simon sez -- our musketeers are thrown into the air to do their fighting . 
the end result is a tepid and dull action/adventure rip-off that stinks of indiana jones and bad asian kung fu . 
the story is so simple my grandmother could have adapted the screenplay . 
d'artagnan ( justin chambers ) is the vengeful son of a slain musketeer . 
he travels to paris to join the royal musketeers and find the man that killed his parents . 
in paris , he meets the cunning cardinal richelieu ( stephen rea ) , who is trying to overthrow the king , and richelieu's man-in-black associate febre ( tim roth ) , the killer of his folks . 
he finds the musketeers in paris disbanded and drunk , so he rounds up aramis ( nick moran ) , athos ( jan gregor kremp ) and porthos ( steven spiers ) to free the musketeer's wrongfully imprisoned leader treville from the king's prison . 
d'artagnan and his new frisky love interest/chambermaid francesca ( mena suvari ) play footsy and coo at each other as the cardinal hunts down the musketeers until finally the queen ( catherine deneuve ) ends up being captured by the menancing febre , forcing the musketeers to regroup , with d'artagnan leading the charge , and save the day . 
director peter hyams ( end of days ) obviously wanted to blend eastern and western filmmaking styles , but here it's a disaster . 
one problem is that , in reality , most eastern films have taken their lead from western ones . 
jet li's high risk is a rip-off of die hard -- not the other way around . 
ironically , there is awfully little swordplay or action in the film at all -- maybe ten minutes of swashbuckling spread over five scenes . 
most asian action films carry the bulk of their production with 20- to 30-minute action sequences , because they know the scenes have to carry the picture . 
the musketeer instead weighs itself down with a predictable and monotonous screenplay by gene quintano ( sudden death ) , horrible acting by stephen rea and tim roth , and the prosaic attempt of justin chambers ( the wedding planner ) to deliver his mousy self as a leader . 
chambers' d'artangnan isn't a musketeer -- he's a mouseketeer ! 
and hyam's use of candles and torches to light the grime and filth of 17th century paris are well-noted , but that's the only standout in an overall flat production . 
for those of us who weren't yet born when the 1960's rock 'n' rolled around , monterey pop affords an affectionate glimpse of the music that influenced our parents to be hippies . 
from otis redding to jimi hendrix , janis joplin to the mamas and the papas , and jefferson airplane to the who , this documentary is jam-packed with contagious energy . 
but i give fair warning that i will reveal the ending , which does not do the rest of the film the justice it deserves . 
shot in 1969 at an outdoor concert that precluded woodstock , the film defies the stereotype of the general population at the time . 
sure , some have painted their faces and smoke joints , but d . a . 
pennebaker ( the war room , moon over broadway ) surprisingly chooses to show a broad spectrum of the audience . 
no matter who is watching , it all comes back to the talented musicians that stir your soul . 
the excitement starts before the music even begins . 
a young girl is cleaning thousands of seats and when asked why by an interviewer , she replies that she feels lucky to do so . 
there are moments of organized craziness as john phillips , leader of the mamas and the papas and one of the concert organizers , tries to get in touch with dionne warwick . 
and when one band is tuning up , a member remarks , " finally , a decent sound system ! " 
you can tell just by watching these first few moments that this show isn't about vanity , it's about playing the music you love to those who have an appreciation for it , a two-way street . 
this interaction between audience and performer continues throughout the film and becomes infectious to the audience . 
it's impossible to tear your eyes away from janis joplin as she belts out her ballad about love being a ball and chain . 
and while the lyrics to " wild thing " may not be all that complicated , watching jimi hendrix mime having sex with his guitar is as captivating as otis redding singing about love . 
even if you don't recognize every band you see on stage , you can imagine being as enthralled by their work as the public sitting in those seats . 
the only drawback to the film is the ending , which unfortunately i must reveal . 
all the other bands , big names then and still today , got approximately 7 to 10 minutes of screen time . 
in contrast , the last band on camera , a wholly forgettable one , gets an entire 18 minutes of screen time . 
for a film that's only 78 minutes long , that's too large of a chunk , especially when previous acts are much more stimulating . 
all in all , monterey pop is a precious , rare look at a time period that still holds sway over us . 
the variety of music , as well as the beautifully shot performances , are easy to become immersed in . 
if there was ever any question as to why most of these bands were so popular , this is quickly dispelled . 
it's almost depressing to think that music this moving doesn't get made much anymore . 
instead we're stuck with * nsync , the backstreet boys , and jennifer lopez , all of whom should have stuck with modeling . 
plot : derek zoolander is a male model . 
he is also very dumb and impressionable . 
for that reason , he is secretly hired and trained ( so secret , that even he doesn't know about it ) by an underground fashion syndicate to assassinate the prime minister of malaysia , who wants to abolish child labor in his country . 
will zoolander fulfill the dirty deed ? 
will zoolander ever grace the world his new " look " ? 
is this a funny movie ? 
find out below . . . 
critique : there's a place in our world for " stupid comedies " . 
films which don't pretend to take themselves seriously , are based on idiotic premises and filled with dumb jokes . 
there's also a time for them and many would argue that this difficult period of our history , might be an ideal circumstance during which to " relax " by watching something so completely frivolous . 
well , if you're in the mood for some seriously mindless entertainment , ben stiller and his cast of many have assembled one of the more original dumb comedies in some time . 
of course , comedies as such are usually very subjective and i could see how some will see this film simply as stupid and unfunny , while others will grant them the " stupid " , but consider it funny instead . 
i personally enjoyed it for the most part , cracked up loudly during a couple of specific sequences and loved the derek zoolander character and the unrestrained whipping they released upon the fashion industry . 
snap ! 
it was also nice to see several real-life models with small roles in the movie , not taking themselves too seriously . 
and if you're the type of person who likes celebrity cameos in films , well , don't look any further because dozens of famous faces show up here including vince vaughn , billy zane , winona ryder , christian slater , david duchovny , natalie portman and many , many others . 
i especially liked andy dick's complete make-over as the masseuse . 
hi-larious ! 
but with all films of this type , there is bound to be some stuff that simply doesn't work . 
a few particulars which didn't strike my fancy included the bulimia and " orgy " sequence with christine taylor , the break-dance fighting , and i also never get why they use real countries in plots like this ( why not just " make up " a country , instead of zeroing in on a certain people ? ) . 
i also could have done with less of the taylor character in general , since she wasn't all that interesting and seemed to slow things down every now and then ( more zoolander , dude ! ) . 
but those few missteps were nothing compared to some of the more memorable scenes which definitely did work for me ! 
i almost pissed myself during the " gas station " disaster , absolutely adored the " walk-off " contest ( with david bowie as the judge , no less ) and appreciated many of zoolander's moronic one-liners ( " i was a merman . . . a 
merman ! ! " ) . 
and i dare you to get his " monkey " photo shoot out of your head after seeing this movie ( " you're a monkey , derek . . . a 
monkey ! " ) 
i also really liked the soundtrack and the pace of the film , both of which zipped and zagged , and established a nice rhythm to it all . 
again , it's to note that this movie is dumb and not for everyone , but my guess is that if you laughed at the trailer , you will likely enjoy many of the quips in the actual picture as well . 
if you thought the trailer was dumb , skip this dodo bird and go rent austin powers again or something , a film from which there is an obvious influence here . 
blue steel , baby . . . yeah ! ! ! 
where's joblo coming from ? 
